and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out my weekly emails where I share
actual website and B2B marketing tips
useful podcasts goodies and more you can
give it a shot over at businessgrowth
dot email
so join me today I've got Kat Anderson
that's the head of international
marketing over at Sprout social cat
welcome to the show how we doing hi sir
I'm lovely to see you oh yeah I'm doing
great today thank you it's supposed to
be the most miserable day of the year
but it's actually quite sunny here in
Ireland so I don't know what's going on
that's like doesn't make sense
signs of a great day yeah we've actually
got a rare rare sunny day after like a
ton of rain and hail and everything you
could name Under the Sun by the way so
yeah nice nice to see some some sun
shining but today we're going to be
chatting why B2B marketing should get
prospects emotional which is uh yeah it
should be a should be a fun fun episode
some people might be tuning in thinking
what the heck does that mean like does
that mean they need to start balling
their eyes out do they need to laugh do
they need to do something in between so
first and foremost Kat what the heck
does actually getting emotional with
your marketing mean
well I mean I think it's not yeah we're
obviously not trying to get people
sobbing you know uh but I mean maybe
also that sometimes works as well
basically emotional marketing is exactly
as it sounds it's using emotion to
actually
um help assist sort of the buying
process now that sounds incredibly
mercenary but it's been proven time and
time again that when people are making
decisions a lot of the time emotion does
play quite a big part of that in fact
when people are making any kind of
decisions at all emotion plays a huge
role in it and and typically in B2B
marketing we kind of I don't know what
it is about B2B but things suddenly get
very stuffy and very you know we sort of
it feels like we're selling into
corporate uh like buildings rather than
actual human beings who we're trying to
connect with and that whole emotional
side of the buying process is woefully
neglected
um last year there was loads and loads
and loads of reports that came out and
that showed that basically incorporating
emotion and trying to make your
prospects laugh or trying to make them
have some kind of emotional reaction
would yield amazing results uh for
pretty much all Industries but
particularly in B2B because it's so
neglected you have a real opportunity to
stand out so yeah and the B2B cards
Alliance award came out last year for
B2B and they I think were very
interested in emotional campaigns with
that so you know it's it's the Hot Topic
I'm telling you yeah yeah I mean it's
weird right because it feels like b2c
Brands especially with the air of tick
tock where we're in where they're just
going crazy they're experimenting like
mad like all these different short form
content trying a bunch of different
things getting relevant influences in
their field to promote their goods in an
educational but entertaining manner but
then yeah there's some beats because
companies that nail it for sure but the
majority of B2B companies are still
doing the same thing they've done for 10
years because it's almost like they're
scared they're kind of stuck in a bubble
and they feel oh B2B is super corporate
we're not really dealing with normal
people we're dealing with businesses so
we have to be super smart super super
informal no super formal rather and um
yes yeah it's a strange one right I mean
it's it's almost like a mindset thing
isn't it that we're I feel I don't know
what your thoughts are
no I definitely think so and I think
with B to C
um there's just a bit more of a there's
they're a little bit more uh you know
inclined to take a bit of a risk even a
calculated risk to experiment a little
bit more with B2B typically the
contracts are going to be a lot bigger
and there are going to be more approval
processes baked into the process as well
so you've got to get more heads above
you nodding yes to your crazy
half-backed idea and that's where a lot
of the times things get shut down
um and so I think yeah B2B just is a
little bit more risk-averse because
there's a little bit more to lose or
that's what the perception is anyway but
in fact yeah there's yeah as I say
there's loads to suggest that actually I
I firmly believe this is not only at the
minute I think at the minute this is
something where it's you can get an
early adoption Advantage by doing this
and by trying to incorporate it into
your marketing strategy but I soon think
what's going to happen is this is very
gonna quickly change into where you're
going to be disadvantaged if you don't
do this with your marketing strategy
because I think how people are
interacting and buying things has also
changed quite a lot after the pandemic I
think everyone was very isolated from
each other and you know even within the
corporate world then when all the zoom
meetings started coming on and people
saw that people were wearing their
pajamas on the bottom half and business
suit on the top The Human Side of
business kind of came in a lot more and
I think as isolated as we were we were
looking for more connections it's more
human connections and I think that that
is absolutely spilling into the B2B
world at the minute
yeah it's it's a funny one
um I mean the way way I see it is almost
if you're if you're not adding these
things if you're not being different to
every other B2B company B2B organization
it's almost like you're just you're not
standing out because so many companies
do the same stuff whether that's on
social just re-sharing blog posts
um sharing the events they're up to and
that kind of stuff and it's like I've
seen this thing thousands of times
whether it's on LinkedIn Twitter or
whatever social Channel
um so kind of your mind almost just
blanks it because you just see it from
every every org whereas once one company
does something a bit different it stands
out massively and like you said b2c has
a lot more flexibility they tends to be
a lot more experimental
um but B2B is
B2B in most of the time is a longer
sales cycle typically bigger ticket
items that you're trying to deal with
and there's usually multiple
stakeholders involved the larger the
sales cycle
um and the larger the ticket the item
however
doesn't mean you're not dealing with
people exactly say it to the root of
this show that they're still emotional
so with that said how how do these
things we've talked about so far like
how does getting our prospects emotional
how is that going to impact our bottom
line as a business or our Revenue do you
think
so
Yeah so basically it's uh right the one
thing I actually really want to quickly
talk about with that though is so if
you're getting them emotional so Sam say
I'm trying to sell you something and
Company X is also trying to sell you the
same thing but during sort of the
prospecting period you sort of see some
of our marketing and you laugh and
especially if it's on social media as
well like say it's on LinkedIn we're
constantly posting whether it actually
is maybe really helpful content or a
really funny content or really
thought-provoking content you will
actually start to have a neurological
reaction and that's why social media I
think is also really good for this
because you have that frequency so you
will start to go like ah cat Anderson's
stuff is always really like funny say
for example or it's always you know
there's always good value from that so
then when you actually get to that RFP
process or whatever you know decision
making process is you already actually
have that bias built in where you're
like I've seen their stuff on on
Instagram and like it's really good and
that I mean it would be great if we all
were unbiased creatures but we're not
and so I think like oiling the wheel
with a little bit of bias is always
really really good when it actually
comes to like making a decision and
putting ink on a contract but in terms
of how it actually affects your bottom
line and well I do actually have some
figures here so we did some work last
year with LinkedIn creative Labs
um and basically at the minute 71 of B2B
ads are likely to generate no sales well
that was in 2021 so that's like if
you're just sort of generally thinking
about average B2B they just don't
generate sales like it's very hard to
tangibly tie them back to revenue
however whenever you start to use
emotions so LinkedIn did this amazing uh
uh report basically where they analyze
them because they have the different
types of emotional responses that you
can do so there's like celebrate love uh
support all of the little emojis and
they were able to analyze all of these
different industry brackets and
different whether it's software whether
it's luxury goods whatever ever it was
but with particular Focus to B to B and
across awareness consideration uh uh and
absolutely right the way down to
um conversion it improved click-through
rate it improved engagement rate it
improved form fill rate uh followers
added year to date it improved
absolutely everything and and so
ultimately it was considered that by
having this magnifying effect on every
single part of your funnel and you're
getting more leads straight into the
hands of the sales people yeah it is
it's a funny one I've got a few examples
that I've shared on this show I think
before like through a while ago our
company web Choice were wanting to try
so we focus on inbound right websites
SEO attracting prospects to ourselves
and our clients now we wanted to try
some outbound and I naturally was biased
towards one company purely because I'd
seen the two Founders posting on
LinkedIn for like six months and most of
their stuff's quite funny like they joke
around cold calling and outbound and
things like that
um but because I'd seen them in the feed
every day like showing funny stuff
sharing tips insights ideas video clips
and all this stuff I literally thought
well I'm gonna ask them straight away I
don't yeah in this case I don't even
need to search around compare vendors
because I've been seeing them in my feed
because I trust them they've entertained
me
um providing their and not tens and tens
of thousands they're half reasonable
with their rates probably just gonna
inquire with them if I'm happy with what
they say probably use them so it's like
you nailed it on the head by saying you
build a like an emotional bias if you
are seeing a company that's actually
giving you I guess in my case it was a
little bit of value a little bit of
entertainment
um a little bit of a concoction of all
those things yeah
which then made them the Top Choice in
my mind yeah and I think that's a really
good example because again there's a
real danger I think and uh my past life
as you know working in content marketing
and copywriting I think there's a real
danger in B2B of falling heavily on the
side of business jargon which actually
sometimes starts to become a little bit
of like an invisible language you don't
really know what people are saying
anymore whereas if you have a company
like what you've described like I think
as well I was lucky enough to meet Tom
Boston last year so Tom Boston works for
sales Loft and if you're on LinkedIn at
all I'm sure you've seen him so he's
based in the north of England and I
believe sales loss value prop is that
they help sales people do their job
better no he's probably going to kill me
that that's not exactly what they do but
what Tom Boston does is that he is an
individual who started to make these
hilarious videos just sort of
encapsulating the trials and
tribulations of being a Salesman and
it's you know a real warts and all all
sort of that's why it's funny you know
because people see it and they're like
oh my goodness that's absolutely the
truth of it it's not all like you know
we're killing it all the time it's that
there's struggles and stuff and he's
become really successful from doing that
because not only does he make people
laugh but because he's embodying
the problem and the actual lived-in
experience of his target audience it
also creates trust that they say and go
like okay well they really do know what
they're talking about and they're being
really honest about it
um another really good B2B that I think
really Nails this unbelievably well and
have been doing it for a long time is
MailChimp so MailChimp I think infused
humor throughout their entire product
through their whole customer Journey
which I just think is fabulous you know
um and again they really understand the
end user and and they you know they bake
little jokes into the actual product so
from like the beginning to the end it's
a really consistent like light fun
enjoyable experience where email
marketing can usually be quite stressful
and terrifying actually whereas
MailChimp make it really fun so there's
some people out there doing it really
well but they are establishing
themselves as industry leaders because
there's very little competition
um yeah it's a fair point and something
you kind of alluded to there with the
Tom Boston at salesloft example is
they're almost relatable
so I think a lot of whether it's
people themselves or companies are
almost scared to be vulnerable
not in the nest when I say that I mean
not necessarily to say everything that's
wrong with them but just to share some
flaws like in Tom's case he's like
sharing the ups and downs of being a
sales rep and like the really bad parts
which might be getting sworn out of a
cold call or the really good parts which
might be booking a meeting winning a
deal helping a client whatever
um whereas a lot of businesses just want
to make everything sound like it's super
great super squeaky it's doing really
well whereas when you actually start
getting to the nitty-gritty like you
mentioned there then people are like oh
you're actually a real person and you're
going through the same kind of things
I'm dealing with and I suppose that's
when this kind of trust is built and
yeah actually
that's when the emotional level kicks in
and that's when people are supposed to
subconsciously start thinking like this
is someone I can trust and I'm probably
going to follow them a bit closer now
yeah totally because again if you're
thinking so say you're selling software
you know you obviously want the software
to be squeaky clean and wonderful but we
are all flawed humans you know no matter
what your corporate mask is about how
wonderful you are everyone has brought
times where especially actually when
you're buying a new bit of software in
that particular example a new bit of
anything for your business usually has a
few bumps on the way to you being like a
pro user of it you know like it takes a
little bit of getting used to so if you
know that somebody is presenting
themselves in that vulnerable way in
that way to say like I don't you know I
don't get everything right all the time
or I really understand where you're
coming from it's like immediately the
person you're going to want to do
business with it's just actually
fascinating
that I just really love this topic
because it is fascinating to me that
more companies don't do this you know
because it seems like such a no-brainer
but I think you're really correct Simon
bringing up that vulnerability piece
because I think people can be a little
bit afraid to show that sometimes but
actually you know I actually think right
across our lives as humans the more
vulnerable we are actually you get 10
times back for it you know like people
really react quite well to it because I
think it is and Lord help me this is
such a buzzword but it's authentic you
know like yeah I know that is such a
buzzword but I think true authenticity
you know it when you see it and if
someone is actually being sincere you
can tell
yeah yeah it's it's like one of those
things right so LinkedIn
a lot of
people that perhaps haven't used it as
much or maybe trained by that company on
LinkedIn think it's a super corporate
B2B social media site and it is a B2B
site it is a B2B social network but
the people that I know because we've
interviewed hundreds of people on this
show right
um over the years the people I know that
are actually doing the best on LinkedIn
and I mean not just talking a good game
on LinkedIn but generally generating a
lot of inbound Ops and serious Revenue
are literally telling it how it is like
they're messing around on LinkedIn
they're telling the highs they're
telling the lows they're giving some
good education good value good tips
along the way but they're not like being
corporate and inverted Commons as it
were they're sharing everything well
they're probably they're possibly even
showing like their own company's Revenue
the things they're doing each day the
tips they're learning the experiments
they're running
um all this kind of stuff and those
those are some of the people that are
doing the best
um that I've seen anyway Hands-On on on
the platform that are actually
generating good revenue from it so
that's like a big takeaway
um
but without said
anyone that's tuning in or businesses
that are tuning in that are listening or
watching and thinking this all sounds
quite good I'm kind of getting the
feeling that getting prospects emotional
um with our marketing could be
worthwhile are there any steps you
recommend cat for people that want to
start putting this into play on what
they can start doing
yeah so I would say uh again that
authenticity piece I think it would it's
you can't go too far away from like your
core values so I think like taking a
look at like your core values of of what
you are as a business you know if you
are
I don't know an insurance institution or
something and you suddenly are starting
to like crack wild jokes on Tick Tock it
probably is gonna like not really gel so
I think like humor is always the example
that people use but there's lots of
other things that you can do to try and
like show your emotional value and like
show what you stand for as a company and
evoke an emotional response in people
and so try and make sure that it does
actually still sound like and fits your
brand voice I also think what I was
saying about understanding your core
audience so understanding your core
audience and understanding you know what
their day-to-day lives look like like
where like again so that may literally
be as well like so if you want to start
experimenting on Tick Tock for example
or you think nope they're primarily
going to be in LinkedIn understanding
where they're actually going to be but
again understanding their pain points as
well I do think pain points is quite a
good way I mean that's quite an easy win
if you can go in and sort of address
that and make people feel like like oh
they really get it they really
understand it and I think as well
another nice thing to do as you said is
to share lots of information as well
because again even just by being helpful
it's like uh having that inbound sort of
strategy of sharing sharing lots of
information and not even having it gated
I think we're even moving away from like
gated sharing of information like it's
about like creating that response in the
person to think oh wow Sam Dunning
always has loads of information he knows
exactly what he's talking about we'll be
doing business with him that's the
that's what you want to be creating you
know you can use that as a sign break
time if you want as well
one percent of the time I do yeah
I think you're selling yourself short
no I like the examples so yeah
understanding your audience
understanding who you want to attract
who you want to build trust with who
you're looking to convert is is key
um yeah problems pain points I think is
what the amount of businesses I speak to
and when we're at web choice that can't
clearly Define the exact problem they
solve for the exact Market yeah is
outstanding like it shocks me that yeah
experience marketers experience business
owners are not sure on the the problem
the key two or three problems they fix
and the Persona so I think if you
haven't done that they need to start
talking to your your best current class
customers or Target customers and
understand what are those main juicy
problems they came to you with to fix
because that is gold that is stuff that
you can leverage on your home page or
landing page
um because like you said
benefits are okay but I in my opinion
anyway problems juicy problems like
bleeding net problems that a guy called
Louis Grenier quoted on everybody hates
marketers are just so good for all forms
of marketing whether that's your website
landing pages whether that's for
LinkedIn ads
um if you can really know those top two
or three issues that people comes with
then that makes killer content
um because you can build so many stories
and videos and pieces of content blog
articles around addressing those points
so it's something that's just marketing
101 and yeah and then a lot of off that
will spare a lot of questions and things
that you can address with content so
it's it's so important and then like you
mentioned not getting content
um I think yes it's a fair point I think
it's far too much content these days is
gated that might not need to be
um I think like on many podcasts these
days they share that their marketing
qualified lead the enter your email
address for this ebook is is hopefully
slowly phasing out yeah
but yes it's uh it's it's a different
one I think it's something that's going
to take a few years for companies to
take a shift
um of course it will but I think another
thing as well just to add in is
um
typically in B2B we spoke about it
earlier there's um a heavy risk aversion
so people are sometimes like well we
have always done it this way we do not
want to change and start we don't want
to experiment with new channels we don't
want to experiment with a new tone a new
brand voice and that's completely a
normal reaction because people don't
like change and that's fine so what I
have always found to be really helpful
in that moment is to number one present
data that supports your argument and
luckily in this particular instance
there is heaps of data that you can find
now that will support you in that this
is a a this is a strategy that is going
to bring value to your business so you
can get all of that information that
will support your argument then and I
think if you sort of say we are going to
change our brand voice and do X Y and Z
and it's going to be great people will
not like that as well so again what I
typically do is put a sort of a
framework around it so say we would like
to experiment on this channel for six
months and we're going to do X Y and Z
put it put some parameters around it
then also say like what your hypothesis
is and say what I'm uh what I
hypothesize is that at the end of this
six months I will have grown the
followership I will have like increased
uh you know the leads to the funnel
whatever it is
um and give them tangible value that you
think that you can deliver as well if
you're feeling extremely confident I
also think it's really good to maybe
like present a result that's appealing
to them but if you're very confident you
can deliver more than that go a little
bit under so that you can really like
smash it at the end of that six months
in and go like okay well look we've
completed we've concluded this test that
we ran on LinkedIn where we're trying to
generate more emotional emojis rather
than like just the likes or whatever and
this is the impact that it's had on the
throttle blah blah blah blah and then
roll it out from there I think so often
people can get I mean myself as well in
my own career 100 million times gets so
excited by something that you're like oh
I want to go all guns blazing and people
do just will not go for that so putting
things into parameters putting framing
things as a test is really really good
and then just on that testing side as
well
um if you do get a little bit more
flexibility and you are able to test
whew this is something you should
definitely play around with and
experiment with so I think like
experiment with your tone of voice and
again I always say that this is where
social media is really handy for
marketers because other forms of
marketing typically uh are a lot slower
to put together it's you know a little
bit like they last longer so there's
there is a little bit more risk involved
whereas with social media you know
you've got that feed it's moving fast
you can of course use a tool like Sprite
social to analyze how your social uh
feeds are actually performing and you'll
be able to very quickly see okay this
type of tone is working better like this
time of day is working better and this
is the style of content that we should
move forward and apply to other channels
and you can analyze all of that which is
just crazy that you can analyze things
like you know uh High emotional your
marketing is I think it's really really
exciting but yeah I think
experimentation and I believe in your
birthday posts that you put on LinkedIn
there some I was saying you it was your
birthday the other day and you did a
great post about 32 lessons I believe
you did say the experimental in there
but didn't you I think yeah yeah
I love like I yeah I completely agree
with you I don't think enough companies
try experiments because like you say a
lot of businesses not all but many are
scared to do or scared to break the
trend they kind of know what's working
okay for them but they think if they try
something new they might have issues but
the thing is it's the way that these are
being regular marketing moves like if
you're not experimenting you are going
to fall behind and revenue is going to
be impacted and especially with the
state that B2B tech companies are right
now like companies are let having
layoffs left right and Center funding
issues falling through and all this
stuff so if you're not trying new
channels with small tests then you're
gonna you're gonna see you're not gonna
be here too much longer because yeah
it's it's one of those things and like
you you've just laid out a really nice
way that you can get buy-in it sounds
like from the rest of your team so if
you're dealing with upper management and
you need to put a case forward if you
can look into something provide some
industry stats if you can back it up
with a hypothesis some data and say look
we're going to do a four month six
months test here's what we think will
happen
um can we get some flexibility can we
get some budget around this and then if
it works great we ramp it up if not at
least we've tried it we learn we'll move
on to the next one
um absolutely which is I think it's just
good business really because if you if
if you're relying on everything that's
working now what's to say that you're
doing really well on LinkedIn but
perhaps the algorithm changes or Twitter
or Facebook or whatever it is or
likewise maybe email marketing starts
flopping and if you've got a range of
channels that can build Brand Build
awareness build trust and drive inbound
and drive Revenue if you can slowly
creep those up then it's only going to
help right oh 100 and like I think if
you're working anyone who's working in
digital marketing knows that this is a
field that is changing like weekly if
not daily it sometimes feels early you
know it's changing a lot and so you do
you have to sort of keep your finger on
the pulse and keep trying things I
totally agree with you I think the
reason I feel like there's just a
perception that maybe people who are
ultimately signing off on the larger
decisions and who maybe don't work in
digital marketing but like
you know maybe peek into that world
they're just seeing
I don't know BTS on Tick Tock or
something and they're like what this has
got nothing to do with my business and
they don't understand how they can be
connected and obviously everything that
is absolutely bursting at the Forefront
of like any sort of uh marketing
Evolution where you know B2B is going to
be a wee bit further behind that and it
will be iterated to fit B2B it's not
going to be like what you're going to
see influencers doing or what you're
going to see like just general users
doing it's going to be iterated to fit
the actual market and the use case so
that's why I think that's why I think
the fear is there a little bit because
they're like ah I don't understand this
so we can't fit into it but it won't be
the same as that yeah yeah yeah some
good points some good points I mean
there's um one one big example that
experimentation is is the way to go is
that Chris Walker over at refine Labs is
pretty much shifted his whole business
model into research and development for
the B2B tax base
um so it kind of shows you that's one
way things are going not that that
necessarily has to follow for every
every other B2B OR tech company but um
it's interesting and I think like like
we've discussed their experimentation is
something that even if even if you're a
marketer and you're an organization that
perhaps won't let you do it or won't let
you have budget I'd say perhaps move to
one that might or start your own
experiments on the side of the side
hustle
um like if you don't want to take that
kind of risk then um
do something you're passionate about on
the side and see how it goes quite start
a podcast start your own website start
and start your own blog build a mini
Shopify store
um because these these kind of skills
are hugely worthwhile yeah of your own
self-development business sense
seeing what works in marketing and it's
only going to help you in later careers
when you can bring these as experiments
that you've learned from one with failed
with to other future employers or even
starting your own org so it's yeah super
Super Sound Advice that totally and I
feel like yeah who is not going to be
you know attracted to someone who can
say on their CV I experimented in X Y
and Z like in my own time that shows a
passion that shows like the ability to
experiment with things I also think and
I know it's incredibly cliche but again
it's totally okay if things fail if you
try something and it doesn't work you
come away with learnings for it I think
it's better to do that than to not try
things but like again with this one I
honestly it's just all of the data all
of the reports they all just point to it
being such an easy win that is just
overlooked that this is something I I
could be bleeding on for days for weeks
about this subject because I'm so
passionate about it
just uh well yeah with that cat I want
to thank you very much for coming on
sharingway getting prospects emotional
B2B marketing is so important enjoyed
the conversation so please do tell our
audience where they can learn more about
yourself Sprout social in any way you'd
like to send them to
yeah well um I would love if you wanted
to find out a little bit more about
Sprite social spritesocial.com and we'll
tell you a little bit about like our
software our service and what we provide
for you and how we can help your
business take its social media strategy
and its business strategy to the next
level but it's also absolutely
chock-a-block with a resources section
where there is a Blog that has got every
topic every single problem you could
possibly imagine we've got some answers
for it we also run the loads and loads
of webinars and we actually have a
really great one coming up next month
called how to engage gen Z with Tick
Tock which is also another big juicy
subject that I think a lot of marketers
are a little Bamboozled by and as for
myself I'm always on LinkedIn frankly so
um yeah my name's Kat Anderson if you
have any questions at all please reach
out I'd be happy to talk to you
awesome put all of those links in the
show notes over at business growth dot
marketing of that thanks once again
cheers cat
thanks Sam bye no worries and as always
if you enjoyed today's episode a quick
rating or review on Apple podcast goes a
long way or if you're on YouTube a quick
subscribers appreciated and we'll catch
you on the next one for more no BS
actionable B2B marketing tips to grow
business grow Revenue catch you on the
next one